---
layout: archive
title: ""
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

The BOAT
======
GRB 221009A is the brightest and most energetic gamma-ray burst (GRB) ever recorded, with some referring to it as the BOAT (Brightest Of All Time). 
We collaborate with the [GECAM (Gravitational wave high-energy Electromagnetic Counterpart All-sky Monitor)](https://gecam.ihep.ac.cn) observation team, which detected the BOAT in the keV-MeV energy band, to provide theoretical intepretation of their observations. 
<!--Also unprecedentedly, more than 5,000 very-high-energy photons were recorded by the Large High Altitude Air Shower Observatory (LHAASO), some carrying an energy record up to 13 TeV, challenging the standard scenario of GRB physics.-->

A relation between the data of GRB and its afterglow is found, as the cumulative light curve of the GRB recorded by GECAM closely matches the rising light curve of afterglow recorded by the Large High Altitude Air Shower Observatory (LHAASO), with a time delay of 4.5 seconds.
We build a continuous energy injection model to intepret this relation, in which the GRB jet Lorentz factor is derived from the observed time delay. Additionally, some non-delay similarities between the GRB and its afterglow can be explained by inverse-Compton scatterings of the inner-comming GRB photons in the afterglow shock. ([Zhang+2024a](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03229))

GECAM detected a series of bright, narrow, and regularly-evolving emission lines in the BOAT GRB.
The time evolution of the central energy of these emission lines, with a power-law index $-1$, is naturally explained by high-latitude effect.
Under the assumption that the line emission is generated by $e^\pm$ pair production, cooling and pair annihilation in the GRB jet, we show that jet physics can be tightly constrained by the observed properties. ([Zhang+2024b](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.12977))


Multi-messenger Astronomy
======
Multi-messenger astronomy is the coordinated observation and interpretation of multiple signals received from the same astrophysical event. 
Such events involve a variety of astrophysical processes, each of which may independently emit signals of a characteristic "messenger" type: gravitational waves, electromagnetic waves, neutrinos, and cosmic rays. 
Recognizing that these diverse signals originate from the same source allows for a joint reconstruction of information about the event, providing deeper insights into the nature of the source.

In my Ph.D. thesis, I formulate a Bayesian approach to calculate joint detection rate of multi-messenger events and derive joint posterior constraint on intrinsic parameters.
This formulation has been applied to several studies: 
- Testing neutron star mergers as a possible origin of fast radio bursts. ([Lin+2020, MNRAS, 498, 2384](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/498/2/2384/5900531))
- Estimating the possibilities of observing radio afterglows from neutron star mergers with the Canadian Hydrogen Intensity Mapping Experiment. ([Shikauchi+2022, ApJ, 928, 1](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/ac540d))
- Predicting the chances of detecting very-high-energy counterparts of gravitational waves from neutron star mergers with the Cherenkov Telescope Array. (Lin+, in prep.)

Binary Neutron Star Mergers
======
GW170817, observed by the LIGO and Virgo detectors on August 17, 2017, was a gravitational wave signal produced by the final inspiral and merger of a binary neutron star system. The afterglow of this merger was seen across the electromagnetic spectrum by 70 observatories on 7 continents and in space, marking a significant breakthrough for multi-messenger astronomy.

We performed Markov-Chain Monte-Carlo (MCMC) modeling of the observed afterglow emission from shock-accelerated electrons powered by the relativistic outflow of this merger ([Lin+2019, MNRAS, 485, 2155](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/485/2/2155/5319137)). 
Our analysis, assuming a natural fraction (<100%) of accelerated electrons rather than the commonly assumed 100%, reveals an observable spectral break in the early radio band. This observable break contrasts with the no-break solutions reported in other studies.
This new solution suggests a small particle acceleration efficiency and near electron-ion equipartition in relativistic shocks, consistent with previous results from particle-in-cell numerical simulations.
<!-- Future low-frequency early radio observations are strongly encouraged to capture this crucial information. -->
